Salesforce source documentation (#768)
rudderlabs/rudderstack-docs: docs/sources/extract/salesforce-v2.mdx

  color={'blueviolet'}
/>

<div class="warningBlock">
All the Cloud Extract sources support sending data only to a <Link to="/destinations/warehouse-destinations/">data warehouse destination</Link>.
</div>

## Getting started

To set up Salesforce as a source in RudderStack, follow these steps:

1. Log into your [RudderStack dashboard](https://app.rudderstack.com/).
2. Go to **Sources** > **New source** > **Cloud Extract** and select **Salesforce V2** from the list of sources.
3. Assign a name to your source and click on **Continue**.

### Connection settings

To set up Salesforce as a Cloud Extract source, you need to configure the following settings:

<img src="../../assets/cloud-extract-sources/salesforce-connection-settings-1.png" alt="Salesforce credentials" />

- Enable the **Sandbox** checkbox if your app is in the Salesforce [sandbox](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.create_test_instance.htm&type=5) mode.

<div class="warningBlock">
It is highly recommended to keep the checkbox unchecked if you're unsure whether your app is in a Salesforce sandbox.
</div>

- Click **Connect with Salesforce V2** and connect your Salesforce account with RudderStack.

> - **Start Date**: Select the start date when you want RudderStack to ingest the Salesforce data. RudderStack will not replicate any data before this date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Start Date**: Select the start date from where you want RudderStack to ingest the Salesforce data. RudderStack will not replicate any data before this date.
```

<div class="warningBlock">
All the Cloud Extract sources support sending data only to a <Link to="/destinations/warehouse-destinations/">data warehouse destination</Link>.
</div>

## Getting started

To set up Salesforce as a source in RudderStack, follow these steps:

1. Log into your [RudderStack dashboard](https://app.rudderstack.com/).
2. Go to **Sources** > **New source** > **Cloud Extract** and select **Salesforce V2** from the list of sources.
3. Assign a name to your source and click on **Continue**.

### Connection settings

To set up Salesforce as a Cloud Extract source, you need to configure the following settings:

<img src="../../assets/cloud-extract-sources/salesforce-connection-settings-1.png" alt="Salesforce credentials" />

- Enable the **Sandbox** checkbox if your app is in the Salesforce [sandbox](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.create_test_instance.htm&type=5) mode.

<div class="warningBlock">
It is highly recommended to not check this box if you're unsure whether your app is in a Salesforce sandbox.
</div>

- Click **Connect with Salesforce V2** and connect your Salesforce account with RudderStack.

> - **Start Date**: Select the start date from when you want RudderStack to ingest the Salesforce data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Start Date**: Select the start date from where you want RudderStack to ingest the Salesforce data.
      - If you specify the start date, RudderStack selects all the Salesforce data associated with the `updated` field available from that date and does not replicate any data before this date.
      - If you do not specify the start date, RudderStack replicates all the data associated with the `created` field by default.
      
      
```

> <div class="warningBlock">

Reviewer: can remove this

RudderStack will not replicate any data before this date. Also, RudderStack will replicate all your data by default if you do not set this field.
</div>

> <div class="infoBlock">

Reviewer: can remove this

</div>

### Selecting the data to import

Choose the Salesforce data that you wish to ingest via RudderStack. You can either select all the data or choose specific Salesforce data attributes as per your requirement.

<img src="../../assets/cloud-extract-sources/salesforce-connection-settings-3.png" alt="Selecting the data to import" />

<div class="infoBlock">
For more information on how RudderStack syncs your Salesforce data, refer to the <Link to="#faq">FAQ</Link> section below.
</div>

Salesforce is now configured as a source. RudderStack will start ingesting data from Salesforce as per your specified schedule and frequency.

You can further connect this source to your data warehouse by clicking on **Add Destination**, as shown:

<img src="../../assets/cloud-extract-sources/add-destination.png" alt="Adding a destination" />

<div class="successBlock">
Use the <strong>Use Existing Destination</strong> option if you have an already-configured data warehouse destination in RudderStack. To configure a data warehouse destination from scratch, select the <strong>Create New Destination</strong> button.
</div>

## FAQ

> ### Can I connect my Salesforce source to multiple data warehouse destinations?

Reviewer: Not sure if we should repeat this as we are mentioning it in a note at the top? Also, we are not adding this in every extract doc (acc to the template)

Author: I know, it was a suggestion from a dev to add this FAQ despite it being repetitive, especially for Salesforce doc.

You can connect <strong>only one data warehouse destination</strong> per Cloud Extract source. If you wish to send data to multiple warehouses, you can configure multiple Cloud Extract sources with the same settings and connect them to each data warehouse.

> ### How does RudderStack sync my Salesforce data?

Reviewer: kind of a similar thought, everything here is above in the doc as well

</div>

### Selecting the data to import

Choose the Salesforce data that you wish to ingest via RudderStack. You can either select all the data or choose specific Salesforce data attributes as per your requirement.

<img src="../../assets/cloud-extract-sources/salesforce-connection-settings-3.png" alt="Selecting the data to import" />

<div class="infoBlock">
For more information on how RudderStack syncs your Salesforce data, refer to the <Link to="#faq">FAQ</Link> section below.
</div>

Salesforce is now configured as a source. RudderStack will start ingesting data from Salesforce as per your specified schedule and frequency.

You can further connect this source to your data warehouse by clicking on **Add Destination**, as shown:

<img src="../../assets/cloud-extract-sources/add-destination.png" alt="Adding a destination" />

<div class="successBlock">
Use the <strong>Use Existing Destination</strong> option if you have an already-configured data warehouse destination in RudderStack. To configure a data warehouse destination from scratch, select the <strong>Create New Destination</strong> button.
</div>

> ## Sync dependency on Salesforce API quota

Reviewer 2: I don't think this is relevant anymore. Based on the description of the [connector](https://docs.airbyte.com/integrations/sources/salesforce/) the synch process will stop if we hit the rate limt.
